Hong Kong is set to introduce a one-stop digital platform for its compulsory pension scheme in 2024, a year after its intended launch date.
Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes Authority chairman Ayesha Macpherson Lau on Sunday also vowed to press ahead with the original plans to get the system fully operational by 2025.
“Not only will the efficiency of MPF management be enhanced significantly, scheme members will also enjoy fee reductions … which will further strengthen scheme members’ retirement protection,” she said.
Development of software for the platform had been “largely completed” in June and testing was expected to be finished by the end of this year, she wrote on her official blog.

“According to the current progress, the migration of account information to the [new e-platform] is expected to commence in the second quarter of 2024, with the whole onboarding process to be completed in 2025,” she said.

The e-MPF platform was proposed in 2017 by then leader Leung Chun-ying to cut costs and make fund management more transparent by streamlining the scheme’s administration.
The one-stop system was originally expected to move MPF schemes onto the platform as early as 2023, but faced setbacks due to technical issues and manpower shortages during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Lau on Sunday promised that authorities would press ahead to meet their target of ensuring the platform was fully operational by 2025.
According to past government estimates, the new platform could reduce the average MPF administration fee by up to 30 per cent two years after its launch and by about 50 per cent eight years after that.

Secretary for Labour and Welfare Chris Sun Yuk-han told legislators in March that scheme members could benefit from combined cumulative cost savings of about HK$30 billion (US$3.84 billion) to HK$40 billion during the first decade.

Lawmaker Frankie Ngan Man-yu, labour spokesman for the Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong, said past delays had shaken public confidence in a timely launch.
Federation of Trade Unions legislator Michael Luk Chung-hung expressed concerns that further delays could have a knock-on effect on plans to scrap a controversial mechanism that allowed employers to use money earmarked for employees’ MPF accounts to cover their severance and long-service payments.
The platform is expected to process the data produced when the government gives out HK$33.2 billion to subsidise employers issuing severance and long-service payments to staff members over a 25-year transition period.
Authorities have said that a bill ending the offsetting mechanism would take effect on May 1, 2025.

Hong Kong launched its compulsory pension scheme in December 2000 to provide retirement protection to the city’s working population aged 18 to 64.
Employees and employers are required to make contributions worth 5 per cent of the worker’s income into their designated provident fund account, capped at HK$1,500 for the company although the individual can contribute more.
But the policy has been criticised for service providers’ high fees and the limited information provided on costs, such as fund managers, trustees and administrative charges.
Total assets under management stood at HK$1.11 trillion for the for the 4.7 million scheme members.
